

MOORE FOUNDATION CONTRIBUTION TO DATA CARPENTRY


NA

We are excited to announce that Data Carpentry has received a
contribution from the Moore Foundation to support its activities and
growth. Data Carpentry teaches researchers skills for working more
effectively with data - skills that enable the paradigm of data-driven
discovery being advanced by the Moore Foundation. With the Moore
Foundation’s support, we will be able to help researchers in all domains
accelerate their research.

Data Carpentry, a sister project of Software Carpentry, was started in
2014 with funding from the NSF (1), NSF BIO Centers (2) and DataONE. We
develop curricula and run workshops that are 1) domain specific; 2)
target fundamental data analysis and data management challenges; and 3)
require little or no prior programming experience. We have already
delivered several introductory workshops for biology that cover topics
such as working more effectively with spreadsheets, using SQL for data
management, and analyzing data with R and command-line tools. The
funding from the Moore Foundation will enable us to run more of these
workshops, develop lessons in more domains (including social science,
genomics, and geosciences), train instructors, and engage the broader
data science community.

To lead these efforts, Data Carpentry’s board of directors has selected
Dr. Tracy Teal of the BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action
as its project lead. Tracy has already been working on this project
through BEACON and will now be able to devote herself to the project
full-time. Tracy has a background in interdisciplinary data science,
computational training, and open and reproducible research. As an NSF
postdoctoral fellow in biological informatics and then assistant
professor at Michigan State University, she has written open source
bioinformatics tools and developed a research program in metagenomics
and microbial ecology. She has been a Software Carpentry instructor for
more than three years and developed and taught numerous workshops in
bioinformatics, microbiology, and statistics. Aside from her role in
Data Carpentry, she continues to be engaged in efforts on open and
reproducible research as a committee member of Workflows for
Reproducible Research, the International Network of Next-Generation
Ecologists Open Science group and on the interim board of the Software
Carpentry Foundation.

With the emergence of more data and larger datasets in all domains of
research, we believe that knowing how to work effectively with data can
be a transformative experience for scientists. We are therefore very
excited by the opportunity to grow Data Carpentry. You can keep track of
what we’re up to through our blog, website, email discuss list, GitHub
and Twitter. If you are interested in helping, or in hosting or
attending a workshop, please get in touch!

(1) NSF Career award for Ethan White
(2) SESYNC for Mike Smorul, NESCent for Hilmar Lapp and Karen Cranston,
    BEACON and NSF 12-101 for Tracy Teal and iDigBio for Deborah Paul,
    Matt Collins, Kevin Love and François Michonneau.
