

“COLLABORATIVE LESSON DEVELOPMENT FOR SEMESTER-LONG COURSES”


Building on Data Carpentry’s core strength of collaborative lesson development."

_When did you realize you belonged to the Carpentry community?_

My first encounter with the Carpentry community was early in my PhD
training, _way back when_ Software Carpentry was teaching programming
lessons using brilliantly narrated videos. I knew then that a basic
understanding of computer programming was an important part of a strong
career in science. What I didn’t expect was to get inspired by a
community of scientists and teachers that promotes openness and
collaboration throughout their work.

Fast forward to the present… having just accepted my first faculty
position in agroecology (read, big data scientist in agriculture), I am
very glad that I got involved in the Carpentry community. The
Carpentries active and open approach to science and teaching has become
my own.

I taught laboratory courses throughout my PhD and quickly realized that
the Carpentry model of active-learning resonated with my preference for
teaching labs. There is something about engaging students in the
learning process and giving them an opportunity to explore the lesson
material. Insightfully, the Carpentry community elevated this
active-learning process to include their instructors who are empowered
to contribute to the collaborative development of open source lesson
materials. For new instructors and veteran Carpentry community members
alike, now’s an exciting time to be involved.

Data Carpentry is working to expand their collaborative workshop
development to include curriculum innovation for college and university
courses and just formally announced the first semester-long Data
Carpentry Course. It doesn’t take much to get involved. Instructors and
students are encouraged to provide feedback for the course to help
improve the content and clarity of the existing curriculum. Instructors
are also welcome to fork the course and use the general site structure
and templates to develop their own course and expand the domains
represented by the Carpentry community resources.

To get the collaborative course development rolling, instructors are
encouraged to contribute exercises and lessons that can be used to
customize the existing course structure to specific needs of various
classes and programs. We use a ‘reverse instructional design’ to develop
our course materials and the exercises are the heart of that approach.
Strong exercises clearly direct the instructional materials to be
presented, facilitate practice of the material, and assess learning.

The Carpentry community continues to grow and we are excited for your
participation. Let us know how we can help you get involved.
