

“SURVEY ON WORKSHOPS FOR FOR-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS”


Requesting community feedback on workshops for for-profit organizations"

Data Carpentry’s vision is “building communities teaching universal data
literacy”. All our activities are focused on working towards this
vision.

One of our signature activities is running and teaching workshops.
Except for two, we have so far run such workshops only for non-profit
organizations - universities, non-government non-profits and government
organizations. We have also been assessing the idea of running workshops
for for-profit organizations. One goal would be to raise additional
revenue to subsidize workshop fees at non-profit institutions and to
support long-term sustainability for Data Carpentry. Another is to
provide Data Carpentry training and perspectives to people conducting
research in industry. We’re still evaluating this idea, and before
making any long-term policy we wanted to run pilot workshops and survey
the instructor community on their thoughts about workshops for
for-profit organizations.

We have completed the workshop pilots, running workshops for two
for-profit companies. We charged these companies $5000 per workshop,
four times the $1250 fee at that time. We conducted our standard learner
surveys and solicited feedback from the instructors who taught these
workshops and the hosts who ran them. Overall these workshops were well
received by learners, instructors and hosts. Learners really appreciated
the training, as they struggle with many of the same data challenges as
those faced by their peers in not-for-profit organizations. Instructors
appreciated the opportunity to visit a company and make connections
outside of the academic environment. Hosts were happy with the materials
and the enthusiasm and expertise the instructors brought to the
training.

Software Carpentry has already made the decision to teach for for-profit
organizations. While Software and Data Carpentry generally coordinate
policies, teaching at for profit organizations would represent a shift
in the community that Data Carpentry has traditionally served. IT IS THE
INSTRUCTORS WHO MAKE THESE WORKSHOPS POSSIBLE, SO WE NEED YOUR FEEDBACK!

Instructors contribute to the community in numerous ways, including
teaching workshops, serving on subcommittees, mentoring new instructors,
and maintaining lessons. Another option could be volunteering their time
to teach at workshops that bring in additional revenue. However, is it
fair to generate this additional revenue using volunteer effort? Or is
it fair only if the added revenue is tagged for specific activities,
other than simply improving the prospects for Data Carpentry’s longevity
(for example, by earmarking it for fee-waivers for underserved
communities)? Do these workshops align with our goal of training
researchers to work more effectively and reproducibly with data? Should
we be running workshops for for-profit organizations at all? Are there
potential benefits to instructors to teach at for-profit organizations?
If so, what are they? As instructors get to choose where and when to
teach, how many instructors would be interested in teaching at
for-profit institutions? These are all important questions as we think
about these workshops going forward.

If you currently are or anticipate being involved in Data Carpentry in
any capacity, we want to learn more about your interest and support for
teaching for for-profit organizations! Please fill out this survey and
help guide Data Carpentry.

Data Carpentry community survey about workshops for for-profit
organizations
