

“MAKING USE OF DATA SKILLS”


How our community uses data skills in their work"

Data Carpentry learners and instructors come from a variety of
backgrounds and research disciplines. Many of us, myself included, don’t
think of ourselves as “computer people.” We’re here because, at some
point in our career, we found ourselves doing repetitive and error-prone
computational tasks by hand when someone looked over our shoulder and
said “Why on earth are you doing it LIKE THAT!?” This person may then
have leaned over our keyboard, typed for a few minutes, and finished the
work that would have taken us the rest of the day. At least in my case,
this happened routinely, every time a certain person happened to walk
past my work station, until it eventually became more work to try to
justify my process (“But I only have to do this _once_”. I’d say) than
to capitulate and try to learn the computer magic.

That’s not to say that learning these skills was easy or fast, or that I
feel proficient in many of them even years later. But once I committed
to trying (mostly to avoid those annoying conversations) I started
noticing that these dull, monotonous tasks could be minimized and yes,
some of them could even be fun. And of course, as it turns out, you
hardly ever have to do anything only once.

Some of you may have had an efficiency advocate like I had to peer over
your shoulder and pester you into doing things the “right” way. Some of
you may have gotten frustrated on your own and sought out tools to make
your lives easier. For others, it may have been a desire to make sure
your work was reproducible, rather than simply efficient, that drew you
into this realm. Regardless of what got you to first engage with
computers as helpful tools rather than magic boxes, you’ve probably
developed your own set of practices for making the work that you do
efficient and reproducible.

We’re excited to learn about how the diverse members of our community
use computational tools, particularly those in the Data Carpentry
curriculum, in their daily work. The Data Carpentry blog will be running
a new series titled “Data in the Field” to highlight the many ways in
which our community members integrate “good enough” practices for data
management and analysis into their research.

Stay tuned for posts in this series every Monday. Upcoming contributors
include:
- Naupaka Zimmerman, Asst. Professor of Biology at University of San
Francisco
- Damien Irving, Postdoctoral Research Fellow, CSIRO Oceans and
Atmosphere
- Marian Schmidt, PhD student in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at the
University of Michigan
- Christie Bahlai, Professor of Integrative Biology at Michigan State
University
- Sean Pue, Professor of Linguistics at Michigan State University

We’d love to hear from you! If you’re interested in contributing a post
in this series please contact ebecker@datacarpentry.org.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some questions to consider as you plan your post. These are simply
suggestions - feel free to structure your post in a way that makes sense
for you.

WHAT IS YOUR CURRENT FIELD OF RESEARCH/WORK? Please describe a project
you’re working on in terms that a non-specialist will understand. Tell
us about the types of computational tools that you need to know in order
to work on this project. What do you use them for and why are they
important to your research?

HOW DID YOU COME TO LEARN THOSE TOOLS? More broadly, how did you first
become exposed to these sorts of computational tools? When did you
realize you needed to learn how to use these sorts of tools in order to
do the work you’re interested in doing? How did you go through the
process of learning what you know now? For example, did you have a very
supportive advisor? Did you carve out time for self-study? Did you have
a community of learners that you worked with?

WHAT DO YOU WANT TO LEARN NEXT? What are you currently working on
learning in terms of computational tools or what do you hope to learn
soon? More broadly, how do you plan on continuing to improve your skill
set?

WHAT ADVICE DO YOU HAVE FOR NEW LEARNERS? What do you wish someone had
told you when you first started learning how to use these sorts of
computational tools in your work? Do you have any words of wisdom?
