

“CALL FOR CONTRIBUTIONS: GEOSPATIAL AND SOCIAL SCIENCES LESSONS”


NA

The Data Carpentry community has published two full workshop curricula
in 2017, both targeted towards researchers in the life sciences. We had
our first lesson release for our Ecology lessons in May, followed by the
release of the Genomics workshop materials in November.

Data Carpentry lessons are domain-specific, and targeted towards helping
researchers in particular domains gain the skills they need to conduct
their research efficiently and reproducibly. We’re excited to broaden
our reach to researchers outside of the life sciences starting in
mid-2018 with the release of curricula for working with Geospatial and
Social Sciences data.

Carpentry lessons are developed by and for the community. Lend a hand in
developing these materials and preparing them for publication and
teaching. There are many ways to get involved, ranging from helping edit
the existing lesson drafts, to running pilot workshops, to serving as a
Maintainer for the completed lessons. We are also setting up a
Curriculum Advisory Committees for the two sets of lessons. Members of
these Committees will help ensure these lessons stay up-to-date and
continue to serve the needs of our learners.


How you can contribute

We are asking anyone interested in helping now (or in the future) to
fill out a brief form before December 20th so that we can organize the
effort:

CONTRIBUTION FORM FOR GEOSPATIAL LESSONS

CONTRIBUTION FORM FOR SOCIAL SCIENCES LESSONS

If you don’t get a chance to fill out the form by December 20th, but
still want to be involved, please get in touch with Erin Becker
(ebecker@carpentries.org).

While experience in geospatial or social sciences research, and
experience with the Carpentry community are a plus, there are many ways
to contribute even if you don’t have this background. Please circulate
this link and post to others who might be interested. We be following up
near the end of January 2018 to organize everyone and provide more
information.

Thanks to everyone who is working to move these lessons to the next
stage!
