

“REFLECTIONS ON ASSESSMENT”


Data Carpentry launches Skills-Based Pre- and Post-Workshop Surveys"

As I approach my one-year anniversary on staff with Data Carpentry, I’m
reflecting on what we’ve accomplished this year. I came into this role
with no data science experience whatsoever: self-efficacy had been the
focus of my doctoral dissertation and post-doctoral work. That
background knowledge made for an exciting time exploring our workshop
survey data and letting the community know what our learners think about
our workshops.

I’ve come a long way this year, partly because of my ability to transfer
learning, but mainly because of our community. Looking back at the first
report I wrote about Data Carpentry’s workshop impact, compared to my
recent report about the impact of Software Carpentry’s workshops, you’ll
see that I’ve learned a lot about using R. For that, I owe thanks to all
the community members who responded to my tweets for help, hopped on
Zoom calls with me, and contributed to my GitHub repositories. I truly
feel that I belong to this community, and am living proof that having a
growth mindset can lead to success in whatever field you’re passionate
about.

Thanks to that help from this great community, I was able to develop a
long-term assessment strategy that includes the launch of our new
skills-based pre- and post-workshop surveys, and our joint Data and
Software Carpentry long-term survey.

Let me stress the importance of our pre- and post-workshop surveys. We
know anecdotally that our workshops help learners improve their skills
and confidence. We see it when the faces of learners light up during
workshops. We hear it during instructor discussion sessions when
participants can’t hide their excitement about what they’ve achieved and
how much they look forward to teaching. We know that new instructors are
fielding requests to run workshops. However, without hard evidence that
proves we do indeed enable learners to quickly apply new skills to their
daily research practice, we run the risk of missing out on opportunities
to effect change in the data science space.

Survey links have been pre-loaded into Data Carpentry’s workshop
template, but we need you, our instructors, to encourage learners to
complete those surveys. Even the best-designed survey is useless without
responses. So, how can you help? * Include the survey links in both your
introductory and post-workshop follow-up e-mails. * Ask learners to
arrive 15 minutes early to complete the pre-survey, and stay a few
minutes after to complete the post-survey (This is not ideal, as it
doesn’t allow instructors time to calibrate the workshop to attendees’
skill levels, but it is better than nothing). * Add the survey links to
your workshop Etherpad or Google Doc. * Explain how these surveys not
only push learners to take responsibility for their own learning, but
also help them track their progress towards their learning goals. *
Tweet the survey links before and after your workshop.

These are just a few ways you can support our assessment efforts. We
also invite you to join the assessment network. We created this network
to provide a space for those interested in assessment in data science to
collaborate and share resources. We meet quarterly - our next meeting is
in November. Check out what we’ve already achieved, and feel free to
join us!

I am very proud of the work we’ve done, and excited about what’s to
come. I’d love to hear from you. Tweet your thoughts to @datacarpentry
and @drkariljordan.
