

“OUR 2017 COMMUNITY SERVICE AWARD WINNER: ANELDA VAN DER WALT”


NA

The Carpentries are happy to honor Anelda van der Walt as our 2017
Community Service Award winner. We received seven independent
nominations for Anelda this year, which is a testament to her commitment
to both individual people and the broader community.

Starting from scratch, Anelda planted the tiny seed that has now become
the phenomenal growth of Software and Data Carpentry in South Africa,
not to mention its spread to an ever-growing list of other African
countries, such as Namibia, Botswana, Ghana, Gabon, Mauritius, and
Ethiopia.

With great determination and persistence, she secured funding to enable
a range of workshops and Instructor trainings to be run, such as this
first workshop in 2016 and this one in 2017.

Funding meant many participants could travel to and attend training
which would normally have been far beyond their reach. She also secured
the first ever Software and Data Carpentry membership in South Africa.
Through her passion for the Carpentries, she has inspired many people to
acquire the command line, HPC and other skills that many thought were
beyond their capacity to learn.

[Anelda’s award certificate]

Since then, she has successfully grown a pool of qualified instructors
and has helped hundreds of researchers in South Africa and other African
countries develop foundational computational and data skills to drive
their research forward. Instructor numbers are now above 22.

Community and capacity building on this scale are much more challenging
in southern Africa. Differing research sector priorities, cultural
issues, and the availability (or otherwise) of reliable networked
infrastructure mean that funding alone is not the only challenge
workshop organizers face. Given this, it is commendable that Anelda has
worked so hard to foster and support diversity, reaching out to
researchers in rural areas and actively working to include groups
hitherto under-represented in STEM.

In addition to capacity building, she has taught at more than 10
workshops and has both organized and taught at three instructor training
events within the past 18 months. Post-training, she has followed up
with trainees to encourage them to complete their check-out, and has
helped many begin planning and running their own workshops, oftentimes
helping them source extra instructors and helpers.

She encourages Instructors across Africa to interact with each other via
African-centred calls like this, both to foster collaboration and to
ensure new Instructors feel valued and welcomed into the community.

She also contributes to the global Carpentries community by
participating in regular Trainer discussions and meetings and by taking
her turn at hosting instructor discussion sessions and teaching demos.

Congratulations Anelda and thank you very much for everything you have
done – we honor and value the work you do for the Carpentries.
