

“TRANSFER OF LEARNING”


NA

Have you ever experienced déja vu? It’s when you have the feeling that
what you’re currently experiencing has already happened. It can be
extremely awkward, right? It’s a sensation that leaves you saying to
yourself, “I did this already. This happened.” So, what do you do? Do
you carry out the scenario as you remember it happening, or change it
up? What about your _perceived_ past experience makes you perform
differently in the current experience?

Déja vu is a _feeling_ of recollection–the feeling that you lived
through an experience already. Studies have shown that similar spatial
layouts between the new scene and the scene in your memory may
contribute to the experience [1]. This idea of linking past and present
experiences can be applied to teaching and learning. One theory,
Transfer of Learning, describes how past experiences (transfer tasks)
affect performing in new situations (learning tasks).

Transfer of learning depends on how similar the tasks (learning
vs. transfer) are:

Near transfer: Transfer of knowledge between similar contexts.
Far transfer: Transfer of knowledge between dissimilar contexts.

For example, when I took my first MATLAB course in college, I relied on
my previous high school experience programming in Pascal: _near
transfer_.

When I learned to do clean and jerks in my weightlifting class, I relied
on my knowledge of vectors from geometry to visualize where the barbell
should go: _far transfer_.

Now, let’s think about how we teach Data Carpentry lessons. Ultimately,
all learning is transfer–when learning new things one builds upon what
was previously learnt. Instructors act as facilitators by encouraging
learners to recall what they’ve already seen (déja vu). By encouraging
learners to transfer knowledge, whether from near or far, we are giving
them one more tool to help them learn the skills we teach such that they
are able to master working with data easily and efficiently. When we ask
learners to recall concepts from their previous studies and connect
those concepts to what they’re learning in our lessons, we are
encouraging them to store the information in their long-term memory.

Recognizing how transfer of learning can be used to teach our lessons
can also improve our ability to assess learner’s skills and confidence.
As learning is an active and dynamic process, learners have the ability
to improve their learning by participating in dynamic assessment
(i.e. the challenges throughout our lessons). These challenges promote
metacognition, or, awareness and understanding of one’s thought process.

Think about your own learning. What are some examples of past
experiences that have affected your learning or performing in a new
situation? In particular, can you think of a time when you were able to
transfer knowledge from either near or far? Did that help you learn
programming? Teach programming? Share your experience below–you may just
help someone.

[1] Cleary; Brown, AS; Sawyer, BD; Nomi, JS; Ajoku, AC; Ryals, AJ; et
al. (2012). “Familiarity from the configuration of objects in
3-dimensional space and its relation to déjà vu: A virtual reality
investigation”. Consciousness and Cognition. 21 (2): 969–975. DOI:
10.1016/j.concog.2011.12.010. PMID: 22322010.
