

“FIRST DATA CARPENTRY LESSON PUBLICATION”


NA

Data Carpentry has published its first set of lessons on Zenodo! The
path to get here has included hundreds of people who contributed to
these lessons, taught them, used them and learned from them. All the
feedback, perspectives and contributions have gone back into the lessons
to make them better and keep them updated and relevant. With the Issue
Bonanza and the Bug BBQ, the community became the reviewers and editors
of these lessons before publication. True peer review!

Every Software and Data Carpentry lesson truly are the community’s
lessons. Like the Boy Scout rule “Leave the campground cleaner than you
found it”, everyone has been amazing stewards, leaving the lessons
better than they found them. THIS CULTURE AND COMMUNITY OWNERSHIP IS
WHAT MAKES THE CARPENTRY LESSONS POSSIBLE. So, in these releases you’ll
see that every contributor is an author, and thank you to everyone who
was involved!

A particular thank you to Erin Becker and Francois Michonneau who
oversaw and worked on the whole release process, from PRs and issues to
thinking about and creating process and the technicalities of the
release.

Also a special thank you to our maintainers, who work not only to review
pull requests and solve technical problems, but also create a welcoming
place for new contributors.

-   Data Carpentry Data Organization in Spreadsheets Ecology lesson -
    eds: Christie Bahlai, Tracy Teal
-   Data Carpentry OpenRefine Ecology lesson - eds: Deborah Paul, Cam
    Macdonell
-   Data Carpentry R Ecology lesson - eds: François Michonneau, Auriel
    Fournier
-   Data Carpentry Python Ecology lesson - eds: John Gosset, April
    Wright, Mateusz Kuzak
-   Data Carpentry SQL Ecology lesson - eds: Paula Andrea Martinez,
    Timothée Poisot
-   Data Carpentry Ecology workshop overview - eds: Karen Cranston,
    Hilmar Lapp, Tracy Teal, Ethan White

There is now a release, but there’s always opportunities to make things
better and they’re never done, so now is time to get back to some of
those ‘after lesson release’ issues and start putting in new ones. Happy
lesson-ing!
