

“DATA CARPENTRY GENOMICS COMES TO THE NETHERLANDS”


NA

Twenty-five life science researchers from across the Netherlands and
Germany joined the event on March 22nd and 23rd in Science Park
Amsterdam. The workshop covered multiple aspects of working with
genomics data.

Lex Nederbragt from the University of Oslo, kicked off the event with an
introduction to the core dataset. The rest the first day focused on
working with R in RStudio environment to explore, clean and visualise
metadata in a tabular format, presented by Mateusz Kuzak from the
Netherlands eScience Center and has been wrapped up by Anita Schurch
from UMC Utrecht introducing the Unix shell and file system navigation.

[Lex Nederbragt kicking off the first day]

The following day Denis Schmitz and Sam Nooij from National Institute
for Public Health and the Environment continued the Unix shell lesson,
showing how to search, organize and document the project and how to use
for loops to do quality control of sequencing data. Afterwards, Lex
dived deeper into shell automation, scripting and workflows. Anita
followed up with the ways to move data around between the cloud and
learners’ laptops. At the end of this hands-on intensive day, Natalie
Danezi from SURFsara introduced High-Performance Computing resources
available to Dutch researchers.

During those two days, participants were not only presented with various
techniques of efficient data analysis but also had the opportunity to
learn how to use remote cloud resources provided by SURFsara and Amazon.
Instructors collaborated with SURFsara consultants, Natalie Danezi,
Ander Astudillo and Niek Bosch in the preparation and documentation of
the virtual machine running on National HPC Cloud, based on the original
Data Carpentry Amazon AMI. This image and the documentation will be used
in future workshops organized within a partnership between ELIXIR and
Software and Data Carpentry Foundations.

The event closed with drinks and snacks at nearby Maslov Cafe.

[Post workshop recovery session]

We are just at the beginning of the journey. More work needs to be done
on improving genomics lesson, and Data Carpentry is looking forward to
contributions from everyone interested in providing help. You can read
more about it in the recent Data Carpentry blog post
