

“CALL FOR NOMINATIONS TO JOINT STEERING COMMITTEE”


Stand for election to the joint Steering Committee of the merged Carpentries organization"

EDITED 2017-11-07: “Board of Directors” is a legal term and can’t be used for a sponsored project. Changed to “Steering Committee”

As most of you know, Software Carpentry and Data Carpentry are merging
into a new organization, provisionally called “The Carpentries”. This
new organization will officially begin on January 1, 2018, with a hugely
talented staff and dedicated community already in place.

This is an exciting time, and we are looking for people who want to help
direct the new organization by being an elected member of the Steering
Committee of The Carpentries. The Steering Committee will include both
appointed and elected members in order to balance community engagement
with needed expertise in leading a growing non-profit organization. For
more information about the responsibilities and composition of the
committee, see this issue, part of the merger RFC.

WHO CAN RUN AND VOTE?

Following current SCF bylaws current Carpentries members may vote and
serve on the Steering Committee. Election or appointment to the Steering
Committee is currently limited to members.

The membership is made up of:

-   Every qualified instructor who has taught at least two Software or
    Data Carpentry workshops in the past two calendar years.
-   Anyone who has done 30 days or more work for the Carpentries in the
    past calendar year.
-   Anyone who has, in the opinion of the Steering Committee, made a
    significant contribution in the past year.
-   The signatory for a Silver, Gold or Platinum Member Organization

If you’re not sure if you’re a member, log in to AMY and see if records
show that you have taught in the last two years. If you need records
updated or have any questions, please email team@carpentries.org. If you
have taught workshops that aren’t registered, please include a link to
those workshops. We’ll also be sending out an email to each instructor
with their status.

HOW DO I STAND FOR ELECTION?

In order to stand for election we request that you write a blog post
that introduces yourself to the community. The post:

-   must be about 500 words and can be written in any format (question
    and answer, paragraph etc.)
-   must be titled “2018 Election: Your Name”
-   must be submitted by December 1, 2017

You can submit your post as a pull request to either the SWC website
repository, the DC website repository or by email. In the post, you
should explain:

-   your previous involvement with The Carpentries
-   what you would do as a member of the Steering Committee to
    contribute to the growth and success of the community

The post from last year’s SWC elections contains examples.

Candidates will be given the opportunity to share their thoughts with
our community, including ideas for continued involvement, at our two
community meetings on November 16, 2017.

TIMELINE FOR ELECTION:

-   October 23: nominations open
-   November 16: nominees can introduce themselves on community calls
-   December 1: nominations close
-   December 4-8: community votes on candidates
