

“CYCLE DEIMOS WRAPUP”


NA

We’re wrapping up Cycle Deimos! Here’s what we accomplished over the
past six weeks and what we’re still working on. To help with any of
these projects, please get in touch!


Assessing Our Impact on Learners

WHAT DID WE DO? Data and Software Carpentry launched a long-term
assessment survey in March 2017. The goal of this survey is to hear from
our learners about what has transpired in their work and career since
completing a Carpentry workshop. More information about this survey and
our assessment efforts in general is located on the Assessment pages of
both the Data Carpentry and Software Carpentry websites. The results
show that a majority of respondents gained confidence in working with
data (65%) and in using the tools we teach (77%), and also improved
their coding practices (70%) as a result of completing a Carpentry
workshop. Most of our respondents (86%) were also motivated to continue
learning after the workshop, demonstrating our continued impact on
learners.

WHAT ARE WE STILL WORKING ON? The results from our long-term assessment
survey are very exciting! We’re working on writing up publication
materials for communicating these results to the broader data science
community. We’re also working on finalizing new pre- and post-workshop
surveys for Data Carpentry.

HOW CAN YOU HELP? If you have ideas for disseminating the results of our
long-term assessment, please email Kari.


Training New Instructor Trainers

WHAT DID WE DO? A new cohort of ten Trainers completed the Instructor
Trainer Program and will be teaching in the coming months. Please join
us in welcoming Aleksandra Nenadic, Chris Hamm, Jeffrey Oliver, Jonah
Duckles, Karen Word, Kari L. Jordan, Maneesha Sane, Mark Laufersweiler,
Martin Callaghan, and Naupaka Zimmerman to the Trainers team!

As we grow, we want to be sure we’re communicating clearly with our
partner sites concerning instructor training events. We’ll be offering
several events each month across United States and UK/European time
zones. You can read more about how an instructor training event works
for a partner site on our Members page.

WHAT ARE WE STILL WORKING ON? We’re looking for our next cohort of
Trainers to join the Instructor Trainer Program starting in July and
will be sending out an application to become a Trainer soon! We’re also
working on creating more documentation to support hosts and Trainers in
running instructor training events.

HOW CAN YOU HELP? If you’re interested in becoming a Trainer, please
fill out the application (coming soon!).


Publishing Data Carpentry Lessons

WHAT DID WE DO? Data Carpentry had our first official lesson release
this cycle. With the help of hundreds of contributors, many of whom
participated in the Issue Bonanza and Bug BBQ, we’ve published the
Ecology lessons for working with SQL, R, Python, Spreadsheets and
OpenRefine as well as a curriculum overview. For more details, check out
our blog post.

WHAT ARE WE STILL WORKING ON? We’re working on planning a lesson release
for the Data Carpentry Genomics curriculum. More details and a timeline
for that release coming soon!

HOW CAN YOU HELP? To find out how to get involved with the Genomics
lesson publication, check out this blog post or get in touch with Tracy.


Hiring Community Lead

WHAT DID WE DO? Software and Data Carpentry Staff and steering committee
members created a job posting, circulated it to the community and
identified 4 candidates to interview. After the first round of
interviews we had second-round interviews with two candidates, involving
members of the mentorship and trainer community.

WHAT ARE WE STILL WORKING ON? We are now in the process of finalizing an
offer and will be announcing the position soon.

HOW CAN YOU HELP? The hiring and interview process is now complete.


Small Batch Projects

WHAT DID WE DO? We’ve been using a Django-powered database called AMY to
track workshops, instructor activity, and more. We’ve been working with
our team of developers to start cleaning up some little bugs in the
system. One big change that we’ve recently made is to allow certified
instructors the ability to login to view and edit their own profiles,
using their GitHub account. You can also see what workshops you’ve been
a part of in any role. Check it out by visiting the AMY login page and
click on “Log in with your GitHub account.” Any problems logging in
please email Maneesha.

WHAT ARE WE STILL WORKING ON? Later this year we will be exploring
enhancements that will make AMY an even more useful tool for us.

HOW CAN YOU HELP? If you’re interested in helping with AMY development,
please contact Maneesha.


In Case You’re Wondering

At the start of this cycle we announced that Data Carpentry would be
changing over to a new logo. With ongoing discussions around merging the
Software and Data Carpentry organizations, we’ve decided to hold off on
this for now. Thanks for your patience!

We also piloted a new system for tracking expenses as they are
submitted. We’ll have more news on this later.


Our next cycle - Cycle Phobos - May 29nd through July 21th

You might notice this cycle is longer than the previous two. After
giving six week work cycles a try, we’ve decided to move to an eight
week model, reserving the first week for planning and the last for
wrap-up and reporting.

Stay tuned for an announcement of what’s coming up! As always, if you
there’s something you’re excited about and would like to see, post your
idea to our Conversations repo or get in touch.
