

“GENOMICS LESSON RELEASE”


"

Thanks to a Herculean effort from our Maintainers, the long-awaited Data
Carpentry Genomics lessons have now been published on Zenodo! These
lessons were originally developed through a hackathon in 2014, and have
gone through several major rounds of revision since then. We had an
Issue Bonanza in August and a Bug BBQ in September, with contributions
from dozens of community members.

These contributions were critical to transforming the initial lesson
drafts into a polished version, ready for teaching by any Carpentry
instructor with a Genomics background. As with our previous lesson
release, every contributor is an author, so thank you to all who have
been involved!

Extra thanks to Anita Schürch, Fotis Psomopoulos, Tracy Teal, and Amanda
Charbonneau for their quick response time to pull requests and issues
and their eagle-eyed proofreading. Also a special thank you to all of
the Genomics Maintainers, who put in a huge effort to reorganize and
clean up these lessons over the past several months.

Overview of the Genomics Data Carpentry workshop
This workshop teaches data management and analysis for genomics research
including: best practices for organization of bioinformatics projects
and data, use of command line utilities, use of command line tools to
analyze sequence quality and perform variant calling, and connecting to
and using cloud computing.

-   Data Carpentry Genomics Workshop Homepage - ed: Erin Becker
-   Data Carpentry Genomics Organization Lesson - eds: Roselyn Lemus,
    Yujuan Gui, Mateusz Kuzak
-   Data Carpentry Shell Genomics Lesson - eds: Shichen Wang, Anita
    Schürch, Bastian Greshake, Sue McClatchy
-   Data Carpentry Wrangling Genomics Lesson - eds: Josh Herr, Ming
    Tang, Lex Nederbragt, Fotis Psomopoulos
-   Data Carpentry Cloud Genomics Lesson - eds: Bob Freeman, Darya
    Vanichkina, Kevin Buckley, Amanda Charbonneau

Please note that the R Genomics Lesson has not yet been released, as the
Maintainers for that lesson are working on a major overhaul and
re-focusing of those materials. If you are interested in being involved
with that re-design, please check out the repo.

Thanks again to everyone for helping get these lessons ready for
teaching! We’re looking forward to seeing many more Genomics workshops
happening soon and hearing back from you all about your experiences
teaching these materials.
