

“WORK CYCLE GANYMEDE WRAPS UP”


Here’s what we accomplished"

We are wrapping up Cycle Ganymede. Here’s what we accomplished over the
past six weeks and what we’re still working on. To help with any of
these projects, please get in touch!


Archiving Pre- and Post-Workshop Survey Data

WHAT DID WE DO?

During the previous work cycle, Data Carpentry launched new pre- and
post-workshop surveys that included skills-based questions, and the
ability for respondents to provide a unique identifier to facilitate
future paired analyses. We archived the old survey data for Data
Carpentry and created a draft RMarkdown report and plots for all of the
data. Paula Andrea Martinez helped Kari Jordan with this. Because of the
way the code is structured, there was no easy way to create a RMarkdown
report that includes only selected plots. Hopefully, we will find a way
round this for future reports.

HOW CAN YOU HELP?

If you’re interested in other visualizations or analyses of our data,
please contribute! All our data and the code that generated this report
is available for reuse. We would love to see people with other questions
or ideas use the data in their work or contribute for future reports.


Long-term Survey Report

WHAT DID WE DO?

The results of the Carpentries long-term survey are extremely
compelling, and we want to share them with a broader community.
Accordingly, a team led by Kari Jordan is working to draft a manuscript
around our long-term survey results. Assessment will be the topic of our
October 19 community call.

HOW CAN YOU HELP?

If you would like to know more about our assessment work, or if you
would like to help out in some way, please join the October 19 call. If
you have recently attended a workshop, please complete the survey. You
can also join our Google Group on assessment.


Instructor Training Curriculum Lesson Release

WHAT DID WE DO?

Trainers and instructors did a lot of work readying our instructor
training curriculum for the release of a new version. Thanks to all who
took part. The material has now been published. See it here.

HOW CAN YOU HELP?

If you are a Trainer teaching this material, please let us know if you
find any errors or omissions by raising an issue on the GitHub
repository. We would also value more general feedback.


Genomics Lesson Update

WHAT DID WE DO?

Many new and current Maintainers, as well as other members of our
community, worked long and hard at both an Issue Bonanza and Bug BBQ to
prepare the Genomics Lesson for release. Because of the number of
outstanding issues and pull requests that need to be resolved, the
release has been postponed to early November. A huge thank you to
everyone who has been taking part in this release! You can see some of
the milestones here, here and here. In the Genomics curricula, we are
also piloting a new approach involving a curriculum committee and more
maintainers, and using a ‘Looks Good to Me’ model. Thanks to everyone
who has been involved in this pilot model. There are still some things
to figure out, and we will be updating this with a maintainers report,
to see if this is a general model we can use for other curriculum.

HOW CAN YOU HELP?

We would welcome assistance with both resolving issues and reviewing the
outstanding pull requests. Please contact Erin Becker if you can help.


FAQ Update

WHAT DID WE DO?

As we prepare for a joint Carpentries, we plan to standardize
information and procedures across both organizations. During this cycle,
the existing website FAQs were moved into HelpScout, during which time
they were also updated and tagged (some with multiple tags). Some new
FAQs were created as well. The website for the updated FAQs is
http://info.carpentries.org/, and it is keyword-searchable.

HOW CAN YOU HELP?

Looking for the answer to something but can’t find it? Reading through
the FAQs and notice something that should be updated or edited? Please
let us know so we can update it or add it to the knowledge base.


What else?

During this cycle, all Software and Data Carpentry staff travelled to in
Davis, California for a two-day, in-person meeting. Read about what we
achieved there.
