

“MENTORING GROUPS SHOWCASE THEIR ACCOMPLISHMENTS”


Community members engage during the mentoring groups virtual showcase."

We just finished our second round of mentoring groups and had an amazing
showcase of their work and ideas. In this round, we were more specific
and focused on multiple topic areas. There were groups on community
building, lesson maintenance, and preparing for instructor checkout.

The feedback and outcomes were great! Participants were able to focus on
specific goals, including teaching their first workshop and developing
new lesson contribution material. Being a part of a group that addressed
something important to them, (ex. developing communities in Japan and
Singapore), made the mentoring groups powerful and enjoyable.

Read about what community members have accomplished in these mentoring
groups, find out how to get involved, or give feedback on how mentoring
would be useful to you!

The second round of the Carpentries mentoring groups began October 25,
2017. Goals of the revised mentoring groups were to offer
curriculum-specific mentoring, and encourage groups to focus their
efforts on lesson maintenance, teaching, organizing workshops, or
building local communities. If you missed the wrap-up of the first round
of mentoring, check out this blog post.

Over a period of four months, 20 mentors and 39 mentees (a total 14
groups) representing eight time zones met either in-person or virtually
to accomplish specific goals. Kari Jordan hosted a training session on
November 9, 2017 to help mentors prepare for their first meeting, and to
discuss goal setting. On November 28, 2017, mentors participated in a
“power check-in” to discuss issues and any concerns they were having
with their groups. These were mostly scheduling-related as we were
nearing the holiday season.

Results from the mid-program survey showed that several groups were
working on projects to build local communities, and several group
members were preparing to teach specific Carpentries lessons.
Participants identified several resources that would improve their
experience, such as a dedicated Slack channel, and more time to work
with their groups. A MENTORING Slack channel was created, and the
program was extended from January 10, 2018 to February 6, 2018.

The culmination of this mentoring period was the mentoring groups
virtual showcase, which took place February 6, 2018. Two showcases to
accommodate multiple time zones hosted a total of 25 attendees. During
this time, mentoring group representatives presented PowerPoint slides
showcasing either what they learned, or something cool they developed
during their mentoring period. A lively discussion took place on the
Etherpad, and several resources were added to the mentoring-groups repo
on GitHub. Here are a few highlights from the showcase:

-   Kayleigh taught her first workshop as a qualified instructor at the
    first ever Library Carpentry workshop in Ethiopia.
-   Katrin completed the check-out process and onboarded as an
    r-novice-inflammation Maintainer.
-   One of the African mentoring groups emphasized the value of
    community in helping to get workshops organized.
-   Saran was able to connect with some regional Carpentries advocates
    in North Texas, and he will be attending his first workshop as a
    learner in the next few months!
    -   This allowed Saran’s mentor, Jamie, to reconnect with the North
        Texas instructors she had previously co-instructed a workshop
        with. They opened a discussion about their burgeoning
        Carpentries efforts at their respective institutions.
-   A local data science community was started at the University of
    Konstanz, Germany.
-   Robin got to live demo an R lesson.
-   Blake’s workshop ran in January and got snowed in!
-   One group developed a program plan for the mentees in the group
    based on their goals and interests. Check out this sample plan.
-   Chris was able to sign up for instructor training and reconnect with
    a community of Carpentries folk at Vanderbilt.
-   Simon found out who to get in touch with, and will be an instructor
    at a Stanford workshop in March.
-   Toby contributed improvements to mentoring material on GitHub.
-   One group drafted step-by-step instructions for beginners to
    contribute to lessons using the terminal or a web browser.
-   Malvika contributed to the CarpentryCon taskforce and shared ideas
    with Kari for the next mentoring round.
-   One group used the evolving community ‘cookbook’ to plan activities
    in Japan and Singapore.

Did you miss the showcase? Check out the recording from the second
showcase!

WHY SHOULD YOU PARTICIPATE IN MENTORING?

Both mentors and mentees received certificates for participating in
their groups, and several group members plan to continue working
together beyond this round of mentoring. Mentoring group participants
were asked to tell the community why they should participate in
mentoring. Here is what they said:

-   It gives you a direct and personal channel for questions and
    support.
-   You get to know other Carpentries colleagues from across the world
    at differing levels of experience.
-   You accomplish goals you probably wouldn’t have accomplished
    otherwise.
-   You learn new things and gain new perspectives.
-   You meet more community members.
-   It speeds up instructor checkout, and brings forward first teaching
    experience at a workshop.
-   You become more confident contributors and practice PR’s on lessons
    before submitting them to the main repo.
-   It’s very rewarding to help people with SWC material in an in-depth,
    one-on-one setting.
-   You never know what connections you will make!
-   You gain community connections and support to grow our collective
    abilities.
-   You get advice on organising workshops.
-   You get help when starting a community from scratch.
-   It’s a great opportunity to learn more about the Carpentries
    programs and to make connections with current instructors.
-   You receive positive feedback for running a workshop.

[Mentoring group meetup in Germany. Photo credit: G Zeller (EMBL
Bio-IT)] MENTORING GROUP MEETUP IN GERMANY. PHOTO CREDIT: G ZELLER (EMBL
BIO-IT)

WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE?

The post-mentoring survey results showed that the major concerns during
this period of mentoring were finding a schedule that fit everyone.
Additionally, several participants suggested that a longer duration
would be useful. Lastly, there were recommendations for open selection
of mentoring groups.

As a result of the feedback from this round of mentoring, and
discussions among the mentoring subcommittee, we are in the process of
developing the instructor discussion sessions such that they include
ongoing mentoring for new instructors and experienced community members.
Look for the next round of mentoring to begin this April!

In the meantime, get involved with mentoring by requesting to join the
mentoring Slack channel and/or attending the next Mentoring Subcommittee
meeting.

Are these things that would help you, or keep you engaged with the
Carpentries? Tweet us your thoughts (@datacarpentry, @swcarpentry,
@thecarpentries, @drkariljordan) using the hashtag
#carpentriesmentoring.
