

“UNVEILING THE CARPENTRIES LOGO”


NA

Now that Software and Data Carpentry have merged, we wanted a new logo
to celebrate our coming together as the Carpentries, and to give that
project its own distinct identity.

[So … here is our new logo!]

The new logo retains a ‘Carpentry’ feel - at the basic level, it
represents a wrench around a hexagonal bolt. Yet it also conveys a sense
of exhilaration and celebration - that magic moment when you ‘get’
something and your arms shoot up in celebration. There are many such
‘aha!’ moments in Carpentries’ workshops, so it is fitting that our logo
represent not just the hard work of learning (the wrench) but the
satisfaction of achievement and mastery that we gain (the ‘Yay!’).

The same, but different

While we have a new logo, and one that we like very much, as far as our
community goes, much of what we do will seem unchanged.

As The Carpentries, we will continue to teach foundational computational
and data skills to researchers. We will continue to observe and evolve
our Code of Conduct. We will continue to grow our memberships, and we
will continue to mint new instructors through our Instructor Training
program.

The individual ‘Carpentries’ will remain as distinct lesson
organizations, and we plan to communicate more as the year goes on about
how these projects are evolving. The Software and Data Carpentry logos
will remain the same, with The Carpentries an umbrella under which they
come together.

Some things _are_ different. Tracy Teal is now our Executive Director,
our two staffs have merged with some reshuffling of roles, and we are
working as The Carpentries with a new fiscal sponsor, Community
Initiatives. Our governance has merged - from having two separate
Steering Committees, we now have a brand new Executive Council.

These changes should only enhance what we do by streamlining
communications and making our working practices more efficient. We will
still support the growth and spread of our community - that will never
change.

CarpentryCon 2018 in Dublin will be a celebration of just how far we
have come as a community. We hope to see you there.

Keep an eye out for our new website soon!
