

“CALL FOR CODE OF CONDUCT COMMITTEE VOLUNTEERS”


NA

The Carpentries are dedicated to developing and empowering a diverse
community of data enthusiasts. Whether you are an Instructor, learner,
Maintainer, Mentor, Trainer, Executive Council member, Champion, or
member of our Staff, you belong to this community. We are committed to
creating avenues for you to contribute that are welcoming and inclusive,
whether in-person or online.

Our Code of Conduct (CoC) serves a vital role in this commitment, as it
outlines our commitment to provide a welcoming and supportive
environment to _all people_ regardless of who you are, or where you come
from. Our CoC outlines very detailed reporting guidelines and an
enforcement policy, so that, should violations occur, members of our
community can rest assured that their concerns are being handled
appropriately and in a timely manner.

The CoC was last updated in 2016. To read more about how these documents
were developed, see this blog post. In a recent review however, we
realized that we needed to increase the transparency of how the Code of
Conduct Committee handles Code of Conduct incident reports, update
wording that would discourage reporting incidents and update how we
handle urgent situations. We’re consulting with Sage Sharp of Otter Tech
Diversity and Inclusion Consulting to address these issues and make
appropriate updates.

In revisiting the CoC, we now also have openings for the Code of Conduct
Committee, and are looking for committee members who are passionate
about equity and inclusion to serve on this committee. The Carpentries
Code of Conduct Committee manages all responses to reports of conduct
violations, and advises the Executive Council on the need to alter any
of the policies under its purview.

As this committee deals with complex issues including ethics,
confidentiality, and conflict resolution, _upon appointment, members of
the committee will receive incident response training from Otter Tech_.

Be a part of a committee that ensures that our community continues to
thrive on diversity of thought and perspective. Complete this
application to apply to serve. The deadline for applications is _Monday,
March 19 at 1100 UTC_.

Should you have questions about the Code of Conduct, or want
clarification on the roles and responsibilities of this committee,
please contact the CoC committee.
