

“BUILDING LIBRARY CARPENTRY COMMUNITY AND DEVELOPMENT”


NA

We are excited to announce that Chris Erdmann has been hired as the
Library Carpentry Community and Development Director starting May 4,
2018.

Chris has worked in libraries for more than 21 years to integrate data
management and workflows in database and library systems. Through
training, consulting and tool development to build programs, he has
tried to empower people in research and library communities to work
effectively with data. Chris received his MLIS at the University of
Washington iSchool while working at the University’s Technology Transfer
Office, where he helped automate workflows and develop the unit’s web
presence and analytics. He spent roughly ten years working alongside
astronomers at the European Southern Observatory (ESO) and
Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics to advance library
data-mining and linking services, e.g. ESO Telescope Bibliography. Also
during this time, he led an experimental training series called Data
Scientist Training for Librarians (DST4L) geared towards teaching
librarians data-savvy skills to help transform their library services to
meet the needs of their research communities. He recently joined the
Library Carpentry governance group.

He is a co-author with Matt Burton, Liz Lyon, and Bonnie Tijerina on the
recent report _Shifting to Data Savvy: The Future of Data Science In
Libraries_, where Library Carpentry and The Carpentries are highlighted
as a necessary next step for libraries to advance their research
services.

Chris will be working with the Library Carpentry community and The
Carpentries to start mapping out the infrastructure for growing the
community, formalizing lesson development processes, expanding its pool
of instructors, and inspiring more instructor trainers to meet the
demand for Library Carpentry workshops around the globe and thus reach
new regions and communities.

This new position is funded by IMLS and hosted by the University of
California Curation Center (UC3), the digital curation program of the
California Digital Library (CDL). It is intended to support the work of
the Library Carpentry governance committee on streamlining operations
with The Carpentries, determining standard curriculum, growing
instructor training for librarians and planning for community events
like the upcoming Mozilla Sprint to update Library Carpentry materials.
Chris will be helping to manage the sprint work in the northern
hemisphere.

Chris is excited about advancing the profession and sees the Library
Carpentry and The Carpentries communities as the perfect catalyst to do
that. He is on Twitter as [@libcce](https://twitter.com/libcce), on
GitHub and on LinkedIn, and we’re very excited to welcome Chris to this
role!

For more information on Library
Carpentry:https://librarycarpentry.github.io Follow
[@libcarpentry](https://twitter.com/libcarpentry) on Twitter. For more
information on UC3 and California Digital Library: http://uc3.cdlib.org
Follow [@caldiglib](https://twitter.com/caldiglib) and
[@UC3CDL](https://twitter.com/cUC3CDL) on Twitter.
